To: those who will survive me.

I was the head of research at E Lab at the installation
in the California desert which the United States calls
Station 3.  I was in charge of the research which produced
our two most effective weapons.

Botulinus is a pale tan liquid: 1200 grams in six flasks.
If ten grams were allowed to contaminate a city, that
city is a morgue in 4 hours.  It is an "ideal" weapon, God
forgive the phrase, because it destroys only people. And
it oxydizes, in effect, disappears, after 8 hours, after
which the area exposed will be safe again.

But there is a second weapon.  Also a virus, also airborne,
but self-perpetuating, indestructable.  Once released,
it will multiply at a power beyond our calculation.
It perhaps will never die.

To this virus we have given a highly unscientific name, but
one which describes it perfectly: The Satan Bug.  If I took
the flask which contains it and exposed it to the air,
everyone here would be dead in a few seconds.  California
would be a tomb in a few hours. In a week, all life,
and I mean ALL life, would cease in the United States.
In two months, three months at the most, the trapper in
Alaska, the peasant on the Yang-Tse, the aborigine in
Australia, dead.  All dead, because I crushed a flask and
exposed a green-colored liquid to the air.

Nothing.  Nothing can stop the Satan Bug.  What would be
the last to go?  Perhaps a great albatross winging its
way around the bottom of the world.  Perhaps an Eskimo deep
in the Arctic.  But the seas travel the world over, and
so do the winds. One day, one day soon, they too would die.

What we have done at Station 3 is indefensible, and the
judgement of history will condemn us.  But the issue now
is what we do about it.  I don't know what the others will
decide, but as an American, a scientist, and a human being,
I have to give my species a chance to survive this hellish
mistake if I can...and I can.

The Satan Bug is produced by the same methods we used
at Station 3 to produce the Botulinus weapon, except
instead of starting with botulism toxin, we began with
the Polio virus instead.

Polio virus is composed of an RNA genome and a protein
capsid. The genome is a single-stranded positive-sense
RNA genome that is about 7500 nucleotides long. The
viral particle is about 30 nanometres in diameter with
icosahedral symmetry. Because of its short genome and
its simple composition—only RNA and a non-enveloped
icosahedral protein coat that encapsulates it—Polio
virus is widely regarded as the simplest significant virus.

A toxoid vaccine for Botulinum was developed at E Lab
using standard methods during the Gulf War.  Toxoid
administration was restricted to relatively few units
that were thought to be at highest risk. Only about 8,000
doses were administered. This vaccine is made through the
same process as tetanus toxoid, which is used worldwide
and even administered to infants and toddlers.

That is how I proceeded, and over a hundred thousand
doses of antivirus for the Satan Bug weapon were
secretly created, and sent to labs in every technically
advanced country to be cultured.  In other words, every
advanced nation in the world has known about the Satan
Bug for nearly as long as it has existed.  The vaccine
forumulation I created is water soluble, non-oxydizing,
and dispersable by air.  Thirty countries have been
desseminating the aerosol, and within a year's time, it
will be measurable worldwide.  But the oceans have deep
currents which are moving slowly.  There still exists the
potential for tremendous destruction and loss should the
Satan Bug virus be released.

True, human civilization will survive, and so the Satan
Bug weapon is therefore useless as a move in armies'
insane chess game. The entire line of research has lost
its strategic significance.  But we are still custodians
of a frightful catastrophie.

I urge the government of the United States to destroy its
store of the weapon.  Perhaps we can take some steps to
redeem ourselves before the court of mankind.  I am under
no illusions what fate awaits me. We who try to act in
humanity's best interest don't last long at the hands of
the hysterical zealots who love war.  I expect my life
will be measured in days.

My children are safe abroad with my husband.  As their
legacy, I leave this testament and all the notes from the
work, where they will be overlooked by the neanderthals
who delight in weapons of destruction.

I beg you, whoever finds this message, assure yourself
that the nations of the world are persuaded to turn away
from this organized insanity.

Protect your loved ones, and please, share our story.
The world needs to know.  People need to stop following
orders.

May the Great Mystery bless, and ancestors guide you.

Tell my children I love them.
Remember me.

LtCol Anita Moonfisher Collins, M.D., Ph.D.

US Surgeon General Corps.
Director of Research, Station 3, 
Department of Defense, Biomeasures Division.
Traitor.





(Material used under Fair Use Doctrine and academic license.)
Please take the time to enjoy "The Satan Bug" from Mirisch
Pictures, a classic cold war thriller.
