Which language is right for you?

In order to help you make a competent, uncomplicated choice concerning
the competition between complex, incompatible computer compilers we
have composed this complete, compact, composite compendium comprising
comparisons to compensate for the complaints and complements of their
compromises. We hope you find it comprehensible rather than compost.


C 
You shoot yourself in the foot.

C++ 
You accidentally create a dozen instances of yourself and
shoot them all in the foot. Providing emergency medical
care is impossible since you can't tell which are bitwise
copies and which are just pointing at others and saying,
"That's me over there."

FORTRAN 
You shoot yourself in each toe, iteratively, until you run
out of toes, then you read in the next foot and repeat. If
you run out of bullets, you continue anyway because you
have no exception handling ability.

Cobol 
USE HANDGUN.COLT(45), AIM AT LEG.FOOT, 
	THEN WITH ARM.HAND.FINGER ON HANDGUN.COLT(TRIGGER) 
		PERFORM SQUEEZE. 
RETURN HANDGUN.COLT(45)
	TO HIP.HOLSTER.

LISP (Recursively)
You shoot yourself in the appendage which holds the gun with which
you shoot yourself in the appendage which holds the gun with which
you shoot yourself in the appendage which holds the gun with which
you shoot yourself in the appendage which holds the gun with which you
shoot yourself in the appendage which holds the gun with which you shoot
yourself in the appendage which holds...

Basic (interpreted) 
You shoot yourself in the foot with a water pistol until
your foot is waterlogged and rots off.

Basic (compiled) 
You shoot yourself in the foot with a BB using a SCUD
missile launcher.

FORTH Foot in yourself shoot.

APL 
You shoot yourself in the foot, then spend all day figuring
out how to do it in fewer characters.

Pascal 
The compiler won't let you shoot yourself in the foot.

SNOBOL 
If you succeed, shoot yourself in the left foot. 
If you fail, shoot yourself in the right foot.

Concurrent Euclid 
You shoot yourself in somebody else's foot.

HyperTalk 
Put the first bullet of the gun into the foot left of leg of
you. 
Answer the result.

Motif 
You spend days writing a UIL description of your foot, the
trajectory, the bullet, and the intricate scrollwork on the ivory
handles of the gun. When you finally get around to pulling the trigger,
the gun jams.

Unix

% ls foot.c foot.h foot.o toe.c toe.o 
% rm * .o rm: .o: 
	No such file or directory 
% ls 
%

XBase 
Shooting yourself is no problem. If you want to shoot
yourself in the foot, you'll have to use Clipper.

Paradox 
Not only can you shoot yourself in the foot, your users can, too.

Revelation 
You'll be able to shoot yourself in the foot just as soon
as you figure out what all these bullets are for.

Visual Basic 
You'll really only appear to have shot yourself in the
foot, but you'll have had so much fun doing it that you
won't care.

Prolog 
You tell your program that you want to be shot in the
foot. 
The program figures out how to do it, but the syntax
doesn't permit it to explain it to you.

370 JCL 
You send your foot down to MIS and include a 400-page
document explaining exactly how you want it to be
shot. 
Three years later, your foot comes back deep-fried.

Apple 
We'll let you shoot yourself, but it'll cost you a bundle.

IBM 
You insert a clip into the gun, wait half an hour, and it
goes off in random directions. 
If a bullet hits your foot, you're lucky.

Microsoft 
Object "Foot" will be included in the next release. You
can upgrade for $500.

Cray 
I knew you were going to shoot yourself in the foot.

Hewlett-Packard 
You can use this machine-gun to shoot yourself in the foot,
but the firing pin is broken.

NeXT 
We don't sell guns anymore, just ammunition.

Sun 
Just as soon as Solaris gets here, you can shoot yourself
anywhere you want.

Ada 
After correctly packing your foot, you attempt to
concurrently load the gun, pull the trigger, scream, and
shoot yourself in the foot. 
When you try, however, you discover you can't because your
foot is of the wrong type.

Access 
You try to point the gun at your foot, but it shoots holes
in all your Borland distribution diskettes instead.

Assembler 
You try to shoot yourself in the foot, only to discover
you must first invent the gun, the bullet, the trigger,
and your foot.

Modula2 
After realizing that you can't actually accomplish anything
in this language, you shoot yourself in the head.

csh 
After searching the manual until your foot falls asleep,
you shoot the computer and switch to C.

dBase 
You buy a gun. Bullets are only available from another
company and are promised to work so you buy them. Then you
find out that the next version of the gun is the one that
is scheduled to actually shoot bullets.

PL/1 
After consuming all system resources including bullets,
the data processing department doubles its size, acquires
2 new mainframes and drops the original on your foot.

Smalltalk, Actor, et al 
After playing with the graphics for 3 weeks, the
programming manager shoots you in the head.

HTML 
<a target="http://body/lower-half/leg/foot.appendage">Shoot here</a>

Java 
The gun fires just fine, but your foot can't figure out
what the bullets are and ignores them.

MOO 
You ask a wizard for a pair of hands. After lovingly
handcrafting the gun and each bullet, you tell everyone
that you've shot yourself in the foot.

Smalltalk 
You daydream repeatedly about shooting yourself in
the foot.

Perl 
You shoot yourself in the foot, but can't figure out how
you did it so you find a dozen new ways to do it.

Python 
You shoot yourself in the foot and everything goes so
smoothly that you go ahead to to shoot yourself in the
other foot then your legs, then your torso and then your
head. Problem solved.

Occam 
You shoot yourself in both feet at the same time with the
same pull of the trigger. You have no idea how it happened,
but it did.

Pick Basic (addition by Carolyn Righeimer) 
You create a Body file, with a Foot attribute that has
five Toe subvalues. 
You neatly and easily shoot yourself in the foot. 
You later discover that you only removed the big toe and
the other toes have moved over to take its place.

ASP (addition by Rodney Benker) 
You may load the gun and pull the trigger, but the bullet
will only hit your foot if you use Internet Explorer.


