Install CodeBlocks on your home machine.  Even if you don't plan on
using it, get it installed and tested before school starts.  That way,
if the network faults, or Buffy is down, you can continue to work on your
code and not get behind.  CodeBlocks runs on Windows, Linux, or Macintosh.

If you're planning on using a Macintosh, don't.
Less than 10% of the students who have tried to use Macs in this class
finished or passed the course.  You can figure out why, if you aren't
in thrall to Apple propaganda.  Since Macs cost twice what they should,
YOU figure out how Apple operates, and what is the ability of the brains
of people who buy their stuff to identify and cope with reality, as opposed
to being led around by their noses by greedy corporations.

Be aware: there is no "controversy" about the nature of reality.  There is
only what is.  If two people disagree, we have adversarial processes
based on the scientific method and the dilectical rules by which society
governs itself, based on the twofold processes of Demonstration and Proof.
Since so many corporations make a lot of money providing such poor goods
and services, it seems to indicate that there are many people who are
too foolish to think and act rationally.  This may be due to ignorance,
not necessarilyy to mental incapacity, so be slow to judge.

http://www.dummies.com/how-to/content/how-to-install-c-codeblocks-in-macintosh.html

Install CodeBlocks on a Windows box: http://www.codeblocks.org  Install
the CodeBlocks MINGW distribution so you have the same compiler for
CodeBlocks which we use under Linux.  Don't mess with Microsoft Visual
Studio, it's nonstandard, and your code won't run on standard systems.

Get CodeBlocks installed on your box before the semester starts.

Read the Introduction and Chapter 1 completely before the semester starts.

Read the Course Syllabus completely before the semester starts.  It's the
contract under which you are allowed in the course, so you should know
what you're agreeing to.  It's over a thousand lines.  If that is a
deterrant to you, you don't want to get involved with programming,
since we read documentation non-stop, and like it.

If you are a poor reader, get that fixed at the Mesa Bridging Lab before
it destroys you.  If reading ANYTHING is tiresome or difficult, that
is what it MEANS to have a literacy problem.  Scrap your ego and
get it fixed.  It will ruin your life.

Before you ask questions, make sure you've read the Syllabus and the
materials for that week.  If the question has already been answered
there, the instructor is not going to be your gopher.  People who do
well in this profession know how to read, as well as how to do their
own chores.

