LINUX SYSTEM ACCESS for students.

A Server is a powerful computer with dozens or hundreds of users.

Users have accounts, accounts have passwords.

Servers are very hard do get into if you're not authorized.

Buffy is a Linux Server.  Linux is an Operating System, much
more powerful and secure than Windows.

We "log in" to Servers.  That means, from our local computer,
we reach across the internet and run commands on the Server
as if we were in the room with it.

How to log into Buffy: (209.129.16.61) using PUTTY.EXE
terminal emulator program.

To log into a server, you need a program which acts like a terminal, a
device connected to a Server, which displays what's happening on on the
Server.  Since they don't sell them any more, we use emulator PROGRAMS,
and PUTTY.EXE is a popular one.

Students who are going to serious 4-year schools will probably use Unix
Servers, since most campuses revolve around them.

Knowing Unix is an important ability if you want to be taken seriously
in technical fields.

HOW TO LOGIN

1. Find out your login name and password.  Your instructor will show
you where the oryxnames or maxnames or gmtnames files are, and where
the class password is listed.

2. Find the file "PUTTY.EXE" on the Windows Desktop, or else go to the
class webpage and download it to your computer.  Double-click it.

(If you don't see it, go to
http://209.129.16.61/~hhaller/data/cisc192/PUTTY.EXE and click-drag
PUTTY.EXE to your desk top.)

Double Click to start it.  The "Putty Configuration" screen displays.

To use PUTTY, you'll need to configure it to use Secure Shell Protocol
2 only:

	When it comes up enter the IP address: 

	209.129.16.61

	in the appropriate box (read the screen)

	click the "SSH" radio button (not telnet nor rlogin, etc.,)

	On the left side of the page, go down the function tree and click "SSH"

	select radio button "2 only" for Protocol.

	Click "Session" to return to the top page, and enter
	a name like "Buffy" in the space provided.

Click OK.  

A terminal window will open, light chars on black,  and you will see:

"login:" 

Enter the name you were assigned: oryx01, gmt87, or whatever.

A "password:" prompt will appear.  

Type in the password your instructor gave you.  AS YOU TYPE, YOUR
KEYSTROKES WILL NOT BE DISPLAYED. Use one finger. Backspace doesn't work.
This is a security safeguard.

If you log in correctly, the screen should display the welcome message
and the Message of the Day.

If it doesn't log you on, you're making a mistake.  Do it over carefully.

You will see a dollar-sign prompt.  The system is waiting for you to
type commands. 

Now get yourself logged in.  Once you're there, you can use Unix to learn about Unix:

For a general tour of Unix commands, at the command prompt, try: 

man intro  and press ENTER.  (Always press ENTER to run a command.)

(man is the Unix Programmer's Manual online.)

(Press space to go forward a page, q to quit.

Try some commands like:
whoami
who
w
finger hhaller
finger root
last | more                (press 'q' when you're done looking).



