Week03 Chapter 3: Performing Mathematical Operations: 

Chapter 3 is only 7 pages long, so read it closely.

Be sure you know how to determine the size (in bytes)
of any variable or type on your system, using cout << sizeof(type) ;

The "Hierarchy of Operations" is similar to what you learned in 4th Grade.

When in doubt, use parentheses to force execution in the order you want.

Read p.48.

Understand that arithmetic operations are statements, and knowing their 
execution order makes it more likely they'll get the right answers.

Since Chapter 3 is so short, this is a good time to get caught up, and to
do some programming.

In particular, I didn't have time to present one program which has a lot
of meat to it: perfect.cpp.

To find "perfect" numbers, we must find all that number's factors.
But different numbers have different numbers of factors. Storing them in an
array is impractical, and C lacks C++'s vectors and stacks' push() methods.
But running the calculations once to identify the perfects, then running
them again to print the output is abhorrent to reason.  Instead, I build
an output line containing all the factors, then, at the end when I
determine perfect or not, I simply print the line buffer if true, and
discard it if false.  This brings C++ functionality to C, which is one
of the classic tests for programmer aptitude.  Any fool can "use libraries",
only the real thing can create them.

Also, the user may run the program in "flood" mode where all numbers are printed
suffixated with their type: Deficent, Perfect, or Abundant.  In that case, it
will never end, so I capture the control-C interrupt so it can print a summary
of the run before ending.  This can be applied to any program you write, and is
a handy way to keep naive users from killing a run with open files.

PLEASE read the comments about this: having a power doesn't mean you're wise
enough to use it.  This is why I say that anyone who wants to carry a gun, probably
by that very desire, is unfit to do so. 

Only a rampant coward needs to arm himself just to feel equal to others.
Unless he's in a real war (not a personal tantrum,) he should face
his own fear and defeat it, rather than seeking a bully's advantages.

As Edward R. Murrow explained it:

"Just because your voice reaches halfway around the world doesn't mean
you are wiser than when it reached only to the end of the bar."

It applies here: the System Admins and the Programmers aren't rulers: we're Janitors.

Check out perfect.cpp.  A perfect number is the sum of its factors.

So any program searching for perfects must first know how to find a number's factors.
This is a mind-numbingly drudge task which computers shine at: they never get bored.

store the number in int num ;
Declare a loop control variable / divisor.  The divisor holds the candidate
which you're testing to see if it's a factor.

for (i = 0 ; i < num ; ++i)
{
	if ( (num % i) == 0)
	{
		printf("%d is a factor of %d\n", i, num) ;

	}
} // simple enough?

