USING_FTP.txt

(The PSFTP.EXE program is old and a bit cranky, but there is
a copy in this directory you can use if you want to.  It's
better to install all the PUTTY suite so you get PSCP.)

Every minimum-wage office assistant in America knows how to send a
fac and use a File Transfer Program to send files between computers.
You need to be able to do the simple office stuff of being a programmer,
so learn it here and now.

You will be ftp'ing a file containing a program you wrote from where ever
"here" is to your file directory on Buffy so it can be automatically
collected to be graded.

Programmer/Analysts are officers.  "Staff" Officers, but Officers
nonetheless. Officers don't go begging the low-level enlisted and temps
to do simple tasks for them...not if they want to retain respect (and
employment.)

(Oh, you should be able to type, also.  If you have to look at
the keys, you're going to ruin your back and neck.  You can learn to
type by taking heyboarding at Mesa, (I did.)  Or, you can buy
Mavis Beacon Teaches Typing.  But whatever you do, learn
the basic skills.  Don't be a karate-ka who can't tie their uniform
belt, or kick without falling down.  You are a complete package.
Take care it's a valuable one.)  Confident and capable beats
goofy and iggerant every time.

Read the files in this directory, supplement with Web searches
when necessary.

using_ftp:

TRANSFERRING FILES TO AND FROM A SERVER USING FTP, (PSCP.EXE), (PSFTP.EXE)
OR Unix/Mac's SCP (scp) or WINSCP.EXE from the Windows CMD line.

You will use one or another FTP (file transfer protocol) program
intensively your whole working life.

If you are using a Windows PC:
When you are ready to upload the program file to the Mesa system, you
can use the "pscp" or "psftp.exe" program to get files from the local
system to Mesa:

Be sure you've put the USB drive in the USB port,

From Firefox, navigate to 

https://www.chiark.greenend.org.uk/~sgtatham/putty/latest.html

Download and install the whole PUTTY "suite".  That will give you PSCP.EXE, too.

Get it installed in your PATH on Windows, have it put icons for Putty and Pscp
on your desktop.  

(.EXE means the file is a Windows program.  You can only run it on WINDOWS.

Click on START and type CMD  a CLI window will pop up.

Change directory to where you getnum.cpp file is saved on your machine.
(Probably your thumb drive). Assume you saved it on F:\guessnum\main.cpp

(Code::Blocks usually defaults to "main.cpp" as the name of the program.)

a command-window will pop up, type:

F:
CD guessnum
pscp main.cpp oryx12@209.129.16.61:asst0  <return>

It'll ask for your password.  Type it in.  What you type
will NOT be echoed to the screen for obvious reasons.

wait until the transfer is complete, then type: quit

(You can reverse the process and copy files to from Buffy down
to your computer:


pscp oryx12@209.129.16.61:asst0/main.cpp .   <enter>

It'll ask for your password, and won't echo it.

MOST FTP programs can only copy from or to the CURRENT WINDOWS 
directory.  This isn't a flaw in the transfer code, it's just
part of how spavined Windows is, still.

-------------------------

If you're on a system with a Unix command line, (which includes
Macintosh computers' Terminal Window,) you may:
copy files to or from your directory on the distance system:

scp myacct@distant.com:filewanted .
or:
scp ./filetosend myacct@distant.com:

(Note for those who cannot deal with abstract or
generalized ideas: you won't type exactly what is printed
above, they are generalized versions.  I expect you
to know where your files are and what they are named.
If this doesn't make any sense to you, talk to me.)
